You need to enable JavaScript to run this app.

OverviewDocumentationAPI referenceExamples

Log in

Sign up‍

Search```K`

Getting started

IntroductionAuthenticationMaking requests

Endpoints

AudioChatCompletionsEmbeddingsFine-tuningFilesImagesModelsModerations

Beta

AssistantsThreadsMessagesRunsThe run objectCreate runRetrieve runModify
runList runsSubmit tool outputs to runCancel a runCreate thread and runThe run
step objectRetrieve run stepList run steps

Deprecated

Fine-tunesEdits

## Introduction

You can interact with the API through HTTP requests from any language, via our
official Python bindings, our official Node.js library, or a community-
maintained library.

To install the official Python bindings, run the following command:

    
    
    pip install openai

To install the official Node.js library, run the following command in your
Node.js project directory:

    
    
    npm install openai@^4.0.0

## Authentication

The OpenAI API uses API keys for authentication. Visit your API Keys page to
retrieve the API key you'll use in your requests.

 **Remember that your API key is a secret!** Do not share it with others or
expose it in any client-side code (browsers, apps). Production requests must
be routed through your own backend server where your API key can be securely
loaded from an environment variable or key management service.

All API requests should include your API key in an `Authorization` HTTP header
as follows:

    
    
    Authorization: Bearer OPENAI_API_KEY

### Organization (optional)

For users who belong to multiple organizations, you can pass a header to
specify which organization is used for an API request. Usage from these API
requests will count as usage for the specified organization.

Example curl command:

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/models \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Organization: YOUR_ORG_ID"

Example with the `openai` Python package:

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    from openai import OpenAI
    
    client = OpenAI(
      organization='YOUR_ORG_ID',
    )
    client.models.list()

Example with the `openai` Node.js package:

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    import { Configuration, OpenAIApi } from "openai";
    const configuration = new Configuration({
        organization: "YOUR_ORG_ID",
        apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY,
    });
    const openai = new OpenAIApi(configuration);
    const response = await openai.listEngines();

Organization IDs can be found on your Organization settings page.

## Making requests

You can paste the command below into your terminal to run your first API
request. Make sure to replace `$OPENAI_API_KEY` with your secret API key.

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -d '{
         "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
         "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Say this is a test!"}],
         "temperature": 0.7
       }'

This request queries the `gpt-3.5-turbo` model (which under the hood points to
the latest `gpt-3.5-turbo` model variant) to complete the text starting with a
prompt of " _Say this is a test_ ". You should get a response back that
resembles the following:

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    {
        "id": "chatcmpl-abc123",
        "object": "chat.completion",
        "created": 1677858242,
        "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-1006",
        "usage": {
            "prompt_tokens": 13,
            "completion_tokens": 7,
            "total_tokens": 20
        },
        "choices": [
            {
                "message": {
                    "role": "assistant",
                    "content": "\n\nThis is a test!"
                },
                "finish_reason": "stop",
                "index": 0
            }
        ]
    }

Now that you've generated your first chat completion, let's break down the
response object. We can see the `finish_reason` is `stop` which means the API
returned the full chat completion generated by the model without running into
any limits. In the choices list, we only generated a single message but you
can set the `n` parameter to generate multiple messages choices.

## Audio

Learn how to turn audio into text or text into audio.

Related guide: Speech to text

## Create speech

post https://api.openai.com/v1/audio/speech

Generates audio from the input text.

### Request body

model

string

Required

One of the available TTS models: `tts-1` or `tts-1-hd`

input

string

Required

The text to generate audio for. The maximum length is 4096 characters.

voice

string

Required

The voice to use when generating the audio. Supported voices are `alloy`,
`echo`, `fable`, `onyx`, `nova`, and `shimmer`.

response_format

string

Optional

Defaults to mp3

The format to audio in. Supported formats are `mp3`, `opus`, `aac`, and
`flac`.

speed

number

Optional

Defaults to 1

The speed of the generated audio. Select a value from `0.25` to `4.0`. `1.0`
is the default.

### Returns

The audio file content.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/audio/speech \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -d '{
        "model": "tts-1",
        "input": "The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog.",
        "voice": "alloy"
      }' \
      --output speech.mp3

## Create transcription

post https://api.openai.com/v1/audio/transcriptions

Transcribes audio into the input language.

### Request body

file

file

Required

The audio file object (not file name) to transcribe, in one of these formats:
flac, mp3, mp4, mpeg, mpga, m4a, ogg, wav, or webm.

model

string

Required

ID of the model to use. Only `whisper-1` is currently available.

language

string

Optional

The language of the input audio. Supplying the input language in ISO-639-1
format will improve accuracy and latency.

prompt

string

Optional

An optional text to guide the model's style or continue a previous audio
segment. The prompt should match the audio language.

response_format

string

Optional

Defaults to json

The format of the transcript output, in one of these options: `json`, `text`,
`srt`, `verbose_json`, or `vtt`.

temperature

number

Optional

Defaults to 0

The sampling temperature, between 0 and 1. Higher values like 0.8 will make
the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused
and deterministic. If set to 0, the model will use log probability to
automatically increase the temperature until certain thresholds are hit.

### Returns

The transcribed text.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/audio/transcriptions \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
      -F file="@/path/to/file/audio.mp3" \
      -F model="whisper-1"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    {
      "text": "Imagine the wildest idea that you've ever had, and you're curious about how it might scale to something that's a 100, a 1,000 times bigger. This is a place where you can get to do that."
    }

## Create translation

post https://api.openai.com/v1/audio/translations

Translates audio into English.

### Request body

file

file

Required

The audio file object (not file name) translate, in one of these formats:
flac, mp3, mp4, mpeg, mpga, m4a, ogg, wav, or webm.

model

string

Required

ID of the model to use. Only `whisper-1` is currently available.

prompt

string

Optional

An optional text to guide the model's style or continue a previous audio
segment. The prompt should be in English.

response_format

string

Optional

Defaults to json

The format of the transcript output, in one of these options: `json`, `text`,
`srt`, `verbose_json`, or `vtt`.

temperature

number

Optional

Defaults to 0

The sampling temperature, between 0 and 1. Higher values like 0.8 will make
the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused
and deterministic. If set to 0, the model will use log probability to
automatically increase the temperature until certain thresholds are hit.

### Returns

The translated text.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/audio/translations \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
      -F file="@/path/to/file/german.m4a" \
      -F model="whisper-1"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    {
      "text": "Hello, my name is Wolfgang and I come from Germany. Where are you heading today?"
    }

## Chat

Given a list of messages comprising a conversation, the model will return a
response.

Related guide: Chat Completions

## The chat completion object

Represents a chat completion response returned by model, based on the provided
input.

id

string

A unique identifier for the chat completion.

choices

array

A list of chat completion choices. Can be more than one if `n` is greater than
1.

Show properties

created

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the chat completion was created.

model

string

The model used for the chat completion.

system_fingerprint

string

This fingerprint represents the backend configuration that the model runs
with.

Can be used in conjunction with the `seed` request parameter to understand
when backend changes have been made that might impact determinism.

object

string

The object type, which is always `chat.completion`.

usage

object

Usage statistics for the completion request.

Show properties

The chat completion object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "id": "chatcmpl-123",
      "object": "chat.completion",
      "created": 1677652288,
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-0613",
      "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb",
      "choices": [{
        "index": 0,
        "message": {
          "role": "assistant",
          "content": "\n\nHello there, how may I assist you today?",
        },
        "finish_reason": "stop"
      }],
      "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 9,
        "completion_tokens": 12,
        "total_tokens": 21
      }
    }

## The chat completion chunk object

Represents a streamed chunk of a chat completion response returned by model,
based on the provided input.

id

string

A unique identifier for the chat completion. Each chunk has the same ID.

choices

array

A list of chat completion choices. Can be more than one if `n` is greater than
1.

Show properties

created

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the chat completion was created. Each
chunk has the same timestamp.

model

string

The model to generate the completion.

object

string

The object type, which is always `chat.completion.chunk`.

The chat completion chunk object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    {"id":"chatcmpl-123","object":"chat.completion.chunk","created":1694268190,"model":"gpt-3.5-turbo-0613", "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb", "choices":[{"index":0,"delta":{"role":"assistant","content":""},"finish_reason":null}]}
    
    {"id":"chatcmpl-123","object":"chat.completion.chunk","created":1694268190,"model":"gpt-3.5-turbo-0613", "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb", "choices":[{"index":0,"delta":{"content":"Hello"},"finish_reason":null}]}
    
    {"id":"chatcmpl-123","object":"chat.completion.chunk","created":1694268190,"model":"gpt-3.5-turbo-0613", "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb", "choices":[{"index":0,"delta":{"content":"!"},"finish_reason":null}]}
    
    ....
    
    {"id":"chatcmpl-123","object":"chat.completion.chunk","created":1694268190,"model":"gpt-3.5-turbo-0613", "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb", "choices":[{"index":0,"delta":{"content":" today"},"finish_reason":null}]}
    
    {"id":"chatcmpl-123","object":"chat.completion.chunk","created":1694268190,"model":"gpt-3.5-turbo-0613", "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb", "choices":[{"index":0,"delta":{"content":"?"},"finish_reason":null}]}
    
    {"id":"chatcmpl-123","object":"chat.completion.chunk","created":1694268190,"model":"gpt-3.5-turbo-0613", "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb", "choices":[{"index":0,"delta":{},"finish_reason":"stop"}]}

## Create chat completion

post https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions

Creates a model response for the given chat conversation.

### Request body

messages

array

Required

A list of messages comprising the conversation so far. Example Python code.

Show possible types

model

string

Required

ID of the model to use. See the model endpoint compatibility table for details
on which models work with the Chat API.

frequency_penalty

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 0

Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on
their existing frequency in the text so far, decreasing the model's likelihood
to repeat the same line verbatim.

See more information about frequency and presence penalties.

logit_bias

map

Optional

Defaults to null

Modify the likelihood of specified tokens appearing in the completion.

Accepts a JSON object that maps tokens (specified by their token ID in the
tokenizer) to an associated bias value from -100 to 100. Mathematically, the
bias is added to the logits generated by the model prior to sampling. The
exact effect will vary per model, but values between -1 and 1 should decrease
or increase likelihood of selection; values like -100 or 100 should result in
a ban or exclusive selection of the relevant token.

max_tokens

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to inf

The maximum number of tokens to generate in the chat completion.

The total length of input tokens and generated tokens is limited by the
model's context length. Example Python code for counting tokens.

n

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

How many chat completion choices to generate for each input message.

presence_penalty

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 0

Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on
whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model's likelihood to
talk about new topics.

See more information about frequency and presence penalties.

response_format

object

Optional

An object specifying the format that the model must output. Used to enable
JSON mode.

Show properties

seed

integer or null

Optional

This feature is in Beta. If specified, our system will make a best effort to
sample deterministically, such that repeated requests with the same `seed` and
parameters should return the same result. Determinism is not guaranteed, and
you should refer to the `system_fingerprint` response parameter to monitor
changes in the backend.

stop

string / array / null

Optional

Defaults to null

Up to 4 sequences where the API will stop generating further tokens.

stream

boolean or null

Optional

Defaults to false

If set, partial message deltas will be sent, like in ChatGPT. Tokens will be
sent as data-only server-sent events as they become available, with the stream
terminated by a `data: [DONE]` message. Example Python code.

temperature

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

What sampling temperature to use, between 0 and 2. Higher values like 0.8 will
make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more
focused and deterministic.

We generally recommend altering this or `top_p` but not both.

top_p

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where
the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So
0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are
considered.

We generally recommend altering this or `temperature` but not both.

tools

array

Optional

A list of tools the model may call. Currently, only functions are supported as
a tool. Use this to provide a list of functions the model may generate JSON
inputs for.

Show properties

tool_choice

string or object

Optional

Controls which (if any) function is called by the model. `none` means the
model will not call a function and instead generates a message. `auto` means
the model can pick between generating a message or calling a function.
Specifying a particular function via `{"type: "function", "function": {"name":
"my_function"}}` forces the model to call that function.

`none` is the default when no functions are present. `auto` is the default if
functions are present.

Show possible types

user

string

Optional

A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to
monitor and detect abuse. Learn more.

function_call

Deprecated

string or object

Optional

Deprecated in favor of `tool_choice`.

Controls which (if any) function is called by the model. `none` means the
model will not call a function and instead generates a message. `auto` means
the model can pick between generating a message or calling a function.
Specifying a particular function via `{"name": "my_function"}` forces the
model to call that function.

`none` is the default when no functions are present. `auto`` is the default if
functions are present.

Show possible types

functions

Deprecated

array

Optional

Deprecated in favor of `tools`.

A list of functions the model may generate JSON inputs for.

Show properties

### Returns

Returns a chat completion object, or a streamed sequence of chat completion
chunk objects if the request is streamed.

DefaultImage inputStreamingFunction calling

Example request

gpt-3.5-turbo

gpt-3.5-turbo

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -d '{
        "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
        "messages": [
          {
            "role": "system",
            "content": "You are a helpful assistant."
          },
          {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "Hello!"
          }
        ]
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "id": "chatcmpl-123",
      "object": "chat.completion",
      "created": 1677652288,
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-0613",
      "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb",
      "choices": [{
        "index": 0,
        "message": {
          "role": "assistant",
          "content": "\n\nHello there, how may I assist you today?",
        },
        "finish_reason": "stop"
      }],
      "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 9,
        "completion_tokens": 12,
        "total_tokens": 21
      }
    }

## Completions

Legacy

Given a prompt, the model will return one or more predicted completions, and
can also return the probabilities of alternative tokens at each position. We
recommend most users use our Chat Completions API. Learn more

Related guide: Legacy Completions

## The completion object

Legacy

Represents a completion response from the API. Note: both the streamed and
non-streamed response objects share the same shape (unlike the chat endpoint).

id

string

A unique identifier for the completion.

choices

array

The list of completion choices the model generated for the input prompt.

Show properties

created

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the completion was created.

model

string

The model used for completion.

system_fingerprint

string

This fingerprint represents the backend configuration that the model runs
with.

Can be used in conjunction with the `seed` request parameter to understand
when backend changes have been made that might impact determinism.

object

string

The object type, which is always "text_completion"

usage

object

Usage statistics for the completion request.

Show properties

The completion object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    {
      "id": "cmpl-uqkvlQyYK7bGYrRHQ0eXlWi7",
      "object": "text_completion",
      "created": 1589478378,
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
      "choices": [
        {
          "text": "\n\nThis is indeed a test",
          "index": 0,
          "logprobs": null,
          "finish_reason": "length"
        }
      ],
      "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 5,
        "completion_tokens": 7,
        "total_tokens": 12
      }
    }

## Create completion

Legacy

post https://api.openai.com/v1/completions

Creates a completion for the provided prompt and parameters.

### Request body

model

string

Required

ID of the model to use. You can use the List models API to see all of your
available models, or see our Model overview for descriptions of them.

prompt

string or array

Required

The prompt(s) to generate completions for, encoded as a string, array of
strings, array of tokens, or array of token arrays.

Note that <|endoftext|> is the document separator that the model sees during
training, so if a prompt is not specified the model will generate as if from
the beginning of a new document.

best_of

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

Generates `best_of` completions server-side and returns the "best" (the one
with the highest log probability per token). Results cannot be streamed.

When used with `n`, `best_of` controls the number of candidate completions and
`n` specifies how many to return – `best_of` must be greater than `n`.

 **Note:** Because this parameter generates many completions, it can quickly
consume your token quota. Use carefully and ensure that you have reasonable
settings for `max_tokens` and `stop`.

echo

boolean or null

Optional

Defaults to false

Echo back the prompt in addition to the completion

frequency_penalty

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 0

Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on
their existing frequency in the text so far, decreasing the model's likelihood
to repeat the same line verbatim.

See more information about frequency and presence penalties.

logit_bias

map

Optional

Defaults to null

Modify the likelihood of specified tokens appearing in the completion.

Accepts a JSON object that maps tokens (specified by their token ID in the GPT
tokenizer) to an associated bias value from -100 to 100. You can use this
tokenizer tool (which works for both GPT-2 and GPT-3) to convert text to token
IDs. Mathematically, the bias is added to the logits generated by the model
prior to sampling. The exact effect will vary per model, but values between -1
and 1 should decrease or increase likelihood of selection; values like -100 or
100 should result in a ban or exclusive selection of the relevant token.

As an example, you can pass `{"50256": -100}` to prevent the <|endoftext|>
token from being generated.

logprobs

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to null

Include the log probabilities on the `logprobs` most likely tokens, as well
the chosen tokens. For example, if `logprobs` is 5, the API will return a list
of the 5 most likely tokens. The API will always return the `logprob` of the
sampled token, so there may be up to `logprobs+1` elements in the response.

The maximum value for `logprobs` is 5.

max_tokens

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to 16

The maximum number of tokens to generate in the completion.

The token count of your prompt plus `max_tokens` cannot exceed the model's
context length. Example Python code for counting tokens.

n

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

How many completions to generate for each prompt.

 **Note:** Because this parameter generates many completions, it can quickly
consume your token quota. Use carefully and ensure that you have reasonable
settings for `max_tokens` and `stop`.

presence_penalty

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 0

Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on
whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model's likelihood to
talk about new topics.

See more information about frequency and presence penalties.

seed

integer or null

Optional

If specified, our system will make a best effort to sample deterministically,
such that repeated requests with the same `seed` and parameters should return
the same result.

Determinism is not guaranteed, and you should refer to the
`system_fingerprint` response parameter to monitor changes in the backend.

stop

string / array / null

Optional

Defaults to null

Up to 4 sequences where the API will stop generating further tokens. The
returned text will not contain the stop sequence.

stream

boolean or null

Optional

Defaults to false

Whether to stream back partial progress. If set, tokens will be sent as data-
only server-sent events as they become available, with the stream terminated
by a `data: [DONE]` message. Example Python code.

suffix

string or null

Optional

Defaults to null

The suffix that comes after a completion of inserted text.

temperature

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

What sampling temperature to use, between 0 and 2. Higher values like 0.8 will
make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more
focused and deterministic.

We generally recommend altering this or `top_p` but not both.

top_p

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where
the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So
0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are
considered.

We generally recommend altering this or `temperature` but not both.

user

string

Optional

A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to
monitor and detect abuse. Learn more.

### Returns

Returns a completion object, or a sequence of completion objects if the
request is streamed.

No streamingStreaming

Example request

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/completions \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -d '{
        "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct",
        "prompt": "Say this is a test",
        "max_tokens": 7,
        "temperature": 0
      }'

Response

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "id": "cmpl-uqkvlQyYK7bGYrRHQ0eXlWi7",
      "object": "text_completion",
      "created": 1589478378,
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct",
      "system_fingerprint": "fp_44709d6fcb",
      "choices": [
        {
          "text": "\n\nThis is indeed a test",
          "index": 0,
          "logprobs": null,
          "finish_reason": "length"
        }
      ],
      "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 5,
        "completion_tokens": 7,
        "total_tokens": 12
      }
    }

## Embeddings

Get a vector representation of a given input that can be easily consumed by
machine learning models and algorithms.

Related guide: Embeddings

## The embedding object

Represents an embedding vector returned by embedding endpoint.

index

integer

The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.

embedding

array

The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends
on the model as listed in the embedding guide.

object

string

The object type, which is always "embedding".

The embedding object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    {
      "object": "embedding",
      "embedding": [
        0.0023064255,
        -0.009327292,
        .... (1536 floats total for ada-002)
        -0.0028842222,
      ],
      "index": 0
    }

## Create embeddings

post https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings

Creates an embedding vector representing the input text.

### Request body

input

string or array

Required

Input text to embed, encoded as a string or array of tokens. To embed multiple
inputs in a single request, pass an array of strings or array of token arrays.
The input must not exceed the max input tokens for the model (8192 tokens for
`text-embedding-ada-002`) and cannot be an empty string. Example Python code
for counting tokens.

model

string

Required

ID of the model to use. You can use the List models API to see all of your
available models, or see our Model overview for descriptions of them.

encoding_format

string

Optional

Defaults to float

The format to return the embeddings in. Can be either `float` or `base64`.

user

string

Optional

A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to
monitor and detect abuse. Learn more.

### Returns

A list of embedding objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -d '{
        "input": "The food was delicious and the waiter...",
        "model": "text-embedding-ada-002",
        "encoding_format": "float"
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "object": "embedding",
          "embedding": [
            0.0023064255,
            -0.009327292,
            .... (1536 floats total for ada-002)
            -0.0028842222,
          ],
          "index": 0
        }
      ],
      "model": "text-embedding-ada-002",
      "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 8,
        "total_tokens": 8
      }
    }

## Fine-tuning

Manage fine-tuning jobs to tailor a model to your specific training data.

Related guide: Fine-tune models

## The fine-tuning job object

The `fine_tuning.job` object represents a fine-tuning job that has been
created through the API.

id

string

The object identifier, which can be referenced in the API endpoints.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the fine-tuning job was created.

error

object or null

For fine-tuning jobs that have `failed`, this will contain more information on
the cause of the failure.

Show properties

fine_tuned_model

string or null

The name of the fine-tuned model that is being created. The value will be null
if the fine-tuning job is still running.

finished_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the fine-tuning job was finished. The
value will be null if the fine-tuning job is still running.

hyperparameters

object

The hyperparameters used for the fine-tuning job. See the fine-tuning guide
for more details.

Show properties

model

string

The base model that is being fine-tuned.

object

string

The object type, which is always "fine_tuning.job".

organization_id

string

The organization that owns the fine-tuning job.

result_files

array

The compiled results file ID(s) for the fine-tuning job. You can retrieve the
results with the Files API.

status

string

The current status of the fine-tuning job, which can be either
`validating_files`, `queued`, `running`, `succeeded`, `failed`, or
`cancelled`.

trained_tokens

integer or null

The total number of billable tokens processed by this fine-tuning job. The
value will be null if the fine-tuning job is still running.

training_file

string

The file ID used for training. You can retrieve the training data with the
Files API.

validation_file

string or null

The file ID used for validation. You can retrieve the validation results with
the Files API.

The fine-tuning job object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    {
      "object": "fine_tuning.job",
      "id": "ftjob-abc123",
      "model": "davinci-002",
      "created_at": 1692661014,
      "finished_at": 1692661190,
      "fine_tuned_model": "ft:davinci-002:my-org:custom_suffix:7q8mpxmy",
      "organization_id": "org-123",
      "result_files": [
          "file-abc123"
      ],
      "status": "succeeded",
      "validation_file": null,
      "training_file": "file-abc123",
      "hyperparameters": {
          "n_epochs": 4,
      },
      "trained_tokens": 5768
    }

## Create fine-tuning job

post https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs

Creates a job that fine-tunes a specified model from a given dataset.

Response includes details of the enqueued job including job status and the
name of the fine-tuned models once complete.

Learn more about fine-tuning

### Request body

model

string

Required

The name of the model to fine-tune. You can select one of the supported
models.

training_file

string

Required

The ID of an uploaded file that contains training data.

See upload file for how to upload a file.

Your dataset must be formatted as a JSONL file. Additionally, you must upload
your file with the purpose `fine-tune`.

See the fine-tuning guide for more details.

hyperparameters

object

Optional

The hyperparameters used for the fine-tuning job.

Show properties

suffix

string or null

Optional

Defaults to null

A string of up to 18 characters that will be added to your fine-tuned model
name.

For example, a `suffix` of "custom-model-name" would produce a model name like
`ft:gpt-3.5-turbo:openai:custom-model-name:7p4lURel`.

validation_file

string or null

Optional

The ID of an uploaded file that contains validation data.

If you provide this file, the data is used to generate validation metrics
periodically during fine-tuning. These metrics can be viewed in the fine-
tuning results file. The same data should not be present in both train and
validation files.

Your dataset must be formatted as a JSONL file. You must upload your file with
the purpose `fine-tune`.

See the fine-tuning guide for more details.

### Returns

A fine-tuning.job object.

No hyperparametersHyperparametersValidation file

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -d '{
        "training_file": "file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo",
        "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    {
      "object": "fine_tuning.job",
      "id": "ftjob-abc123",
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-0613",
      "created_at": 1614807352,
      "fine_tuned_model": null,
      "organization_id": "org-123",
      "result_files": [],
      "status": "queued",
      "validation_file": null,
      "training_file": "file-abc123",
    }

## List fine-tuning jobs

get https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs

List your organization's fine-tuning jobs

### Query parameters

after

string

Optional

Identifier for the last job from the previous pagination request.

limit

integer

Optional

Defaults to 20

Number of fine-tuning jobs to retrieve.

### Returns

A list of paginated fine-tuning job objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs?limit=2 \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "object": "fine_tuning.job.event",
          "id": "ft-event-TjX0lMfOniCZX64t9PUQT5hn",
          "created_at": 1689813489,
          "level": "warn",
          "message": "Fine tuning process stopping due to job cancellation",
          "data": null,
          "type": "message"
        },
        { ... },
        { ... }
      ], "has_more": true
    }

## Retrieve fine-tuning job

get https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs/{fine_tuning_job_id}

Get info about a fine-tuning job.

Learn more about fine-tuning

### Path parameters

fine_tuning_job_id

string

Required

The ID of the fine-tuning job.

### Returns

The fine-tuning object with the given ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs/ft-AF1WoRqd3aJAHsqc9NY7iL8F \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    {
      "object": "fine_tuning.job",
      "id": "ftjob-abc123",
      "model": "davinci-002",
      "created_at": 1692661014,
      "finished_at": 1692661190,
      "fine_tuned_model": "ft:davinci-002:my-org:custom_suffix:7q8mpxmy",
      "organization_id": "org-123",
      "result_files": [
          "file-abc123"
      ],
      "status": "succeeded",
      "validation_file": null,
      "training_file": "file-abc123",
      "hyperparameters": {
          "n_epochs": 4,
      },
      "trained_tokens": 5768
    }

## Cancel fine-tuning

post https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs/{fine_tuning_job_id}/cancel

Immediately cancel a fine-tune job.

### Path parameters

fine_tuning_job_id

string

Required

The ID of the fine-tuning job to cancel.

### Returns

The cancelled fine-tuning object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl -X POST https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs/ftjob-abc123/cancel \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    {
      "object": "fine_tuning.job",
      "id": "ftjob-abc123",
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo-0613",
      "created_at": 1689376978,
      "fine_tuned_model": null,
      "organization_id": "org-123",
      "result_files": [],
      "hyperparameters": {
        "n_epochs":  "auto"
      },
      "status": "cancelled",
      "validation_file": "file-abc123",
      "training_file": "file-abc123"
    }

## The fine-tuning job event object

Fine-tuning job event object

id

string

created_at

integer

level

string

message

string

object

string

The fine-tuning job event object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    {
      "object": "fine_tuning.job.event",
      "id": "ftevent-abc123"
      "created_at": 1677610602,
      "level": "info",
      "message": "Created fine-tuning job"
    }

## List fine-tuning events

get https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs/{fine_tuning_job_id}/events

Get status updates for a fine-tuning job.

### Path parameters

fine_tuning_job_id

string

Required

The ID of the fine-tuning job to get events for.

### Query parameters

after

string

Optional

Identifier for the last event from the previous pagination request.

limit

integer

Optional

Defaults to 20

Number of events to retrieve.

### Returns

A list of fine-tuning event objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine_tuning/jobs/ftjob-abc123/events \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "object": "fine_tuning.job.event",
          "id": "ft-event-ddTJfwuMVpfLXseO0Am0Gqjm",
          "created_at": 1692407401,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Fine tuning job successfully completed",
          "data": null,
          "type": "message"
        },
        {
          "object": "fine_tuning.job.event",
          "id": "ft-event-tyiGuB72evQncpH87xe505Sv",
          "created_at": 1692407400,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "New fine-tuned model created: ft:gpt-3.5-turbo:openai::7p4lURel",
          "data": null,
          "type": "message"
        }
      ],
      "has_more": true
    }

## Files

Files are used to upload documents that can be used with features like
Assistants and Fine-tuning.

## The File object

The `File` object represents a document that has been uploaded to OpenAI.

id

string

The file identifier, which can be referenced in the API endpoints.

bytes

integer

The size of the file, in bytes.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the file was created.

filename

string

The name of the file.

object

string

The object type, which is always `file`.

purpose

string

The intended purpose of the file. Supported values are `fine-tune`, `fine-
tune-results`, `assistants`, and `assistants_output`.

status

Deprecated

string

Deprecated. The current status of the file, which can be either `uploaded`,
`processed`, or `error`.

status_details

Deprecated

string

Deprecated. For details on why a fine-tuning training file failed validation,
see the `error` field on `fine_tuning.job`.

The File object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    {
      "id": "file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo",
      "object": "file",
      "bytes": 120000,
      "created_at": 1677610602,
      "filename": "salesOverview.pdf",
      "purpose": "assistants",
    }

## List files

get https://api.openai.com/v1/files

Returns a list of files that belong to the user's organization.

### Query parameters

purpose

string

Optional

Only return files with the given purpose.

### Returns

A list of File objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/files \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    {
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "file-abc123",
          "object": "file",
          "bytes": 175,
          "created_at": 1613677385,
          "filename": "salesOverview.pdf",
          "purpose": "assistants",
        },
        {
          "id": "file-abc123",
          "object": "file",
          "bytes": 140,
          "created_at": 1613779121,
          "filename": "puppy.jsonl",
          "purpose": "fine-tune",
        }
      ],
      "object": "list"
    }

## Upload file

post https://api.openai.com/v1/files

Upload a file that can be used across various endpoints/features. The size of
all the files uploaded by one organization can be up to 100 GB.

The size of individual files for can be a maximum of 512MB. See the Assistants
Tools guide to learn more about the types of files supported. The Fine-tuning
API only supports `.jsonl` files.

Please contact us if you need to increase these storage limits.

### Request body

file

string

Required

The File object (not file name) to be uploaded.

purpose

string

Required

The intended purpose of the uploaded file.

Use "fine-tune" for Fine-tuning and "assistants" for Assistants and Messages.
This allows us to validate the format of the uploaded file is correct for
fine-tuning.

### Returns

The uploaded File object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/files \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -F purpose="fine-tune" \
      -F file="@mydata.jsonl"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    {
      "id": "file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo",
      "object": "file",
      "bytes": 120000,
      "created_at": 1677610602,
      "filename": "mydata.jsonl",
      "purpose": "fine-tune",
    }

## Delete file

delete https://api.openai.com/v1/files/{file_id}

Delete a file.

### Path parameters

file_id

string

Required

The ID of the file to use for this request.

### Returns

Deletion status.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/files/file-abc123 \
      -X DELETE \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    {
      "id": "file-abc123",
      "object": "file",
      "deleted": true
    }

## Retrieve file

get https://api.openai.com/v1/files/{file_id}

Returns information about a specific file.

### Path parameters

file_id

string

Required

The ID of the file to use for this request.

### Returns

The File object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/files/file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    {
      "id": "file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo",
      "object": "file",
      "bytes": 120000,
      "created_at": 1677610602,
      "filename": "mydata.jsonl",
      "purpose": "fine-tune",
    }

## Retrieve file content

get https://api.openai.com/v1/files/{file_id}/content

Returns the contents of the specified file.

### Path parameters

file_id

string

Required

The ID of the file to use for this request.

### Returns

The file content.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/files/file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo/content \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" > file.jsonl

## Images

Given a prompt and/or an input image, the model will generate a new image.

Related guide: Image generation

## The image object

Represents the url or the content of an image generated by the OpenAI API.

b64_json

string

The base64-encoded JSON of the generated image, if `response_format` is
`b64_json`.

url

string

The URL of the generated image, if `response_format` is `url` (default).

revised_prompt

string

The prompt that was used to generate the image, if there was any revision to
the prompt.

The image object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    {
      "url": "...",
      "revised_prompt": "..."
    }

## Create image

post https://api.openai.com/v1/images/generations

Creates an image given a prompt.

### Request body

prompt

string

Required

A text description of the desired image(s). The maximum length is 1000
characters for `dall-e-2` and 4000 characters for `dall-e-3`.

model

string

Optional

Defaults to dall-e-2

The model to use for image generation.

n

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. For `dall-e-3`,
only `n=1` is supported.

quality

string

Optional

Defaults to standard

The quality of the image that will be generated. `hd` creates images with
finer details and greater consistency across the image. This param is only
supported for `dall-e-3`.

response_format

string or null

Optional

Defaults to url

The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be one of `url` or
`b64_json`.

size

string or null

Optional

Defaults to 1024x1024

The size of the generated images. Must be one of `256x256`, `512x512`, or
`1024x1024` for `dall-e-2`. Must be one of `1024x1024`, `1792x1024`, or
`1024x1792` for `dall-e-3` models.

style

string or null

Optional

Defaults to vivid

The style of the generated images. Must be one of `vivid` or `natural`. Vivid
causes the model to lean towards generating hyper-real and dramatic images.
Natural causes the model to produce more natural, less hyper-real looking
images. This param is only supported for `dall-e-3`.

user

string

Optional

A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to
monitor and detect abuse. Learn more.

### Returns

Returns a list of image objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/images/generations \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -d '{
        "model": "dall-e-3",
        "prompt": "A cute baby sea otter",
        "n": 1,
        "size": "1024x1024"
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    {
      "created": 1589478378,
      "data": [
        {
          "url": "https://..."
        },
        {
          "url": "https://..."
        }
      ]
    }

## Create image edit

post https://api.openai.com/v1/images/edits

Creates an edited or extended image given an original image and a prompt.

### Request body

image

string

Required

The image to edit. Must be a valid PNG file, less than 4MB, and square. If
mask is not provided, image must have transparency, which will be used as the
mask.

prompt

string

Required

A text description of the desired image(s). The maximum length is 1000
characters.

mask

string

Optional

An additional image whose fully transparent areas (e.g. where alpha is zero)
indicate where `image` should be edited. Must be a valid PNG file, less than
4MB, and have the same dimensions as `image`.

model

string

Optional

Defaults to dall-e-2

The model to use for image generation. Only `dall-e-2` is supported at this
time.

n

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10.

size

string or null

Optional

Defaults to 1024x1024

The size of the generated images. Must be one of `256x256`, `512x512`, or
`1024x1024`.

response_format

string or null

Optional

Defaults to url

The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be one of `url` or
`b64_json`.

user

string

Optional

A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to
monitor and detect abuse. Learn more.

### Returns

Returns a list of image objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/images/edits \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -F image="@otter.png" \
      -F mask="@mask.png" \
      -F prompt="A cute baby sea otter wearing a beret" \
      -F n=2 \
      -F size="1024x1024"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    {
      "created": 1589478378,
      "data": [
        {
          "url": "https://..."
        },
        {
          "url": "https://..."
        }
      ]
    }

## Create image variation

post https://api.openai.com/v1/images/variations

Creates a variation of a given image.

### Request body

image

string

Required

The image to use as the basis for the variation(s). Must be a valid PNG file,
less than 4MB, and square.

model

string

Optional

Defaults to dall-e-2

The model to use for image generation. Only `dall-e-2` is supported at this
time.

n

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. For `dall-e-3`,
only `n=1` is supported.

response_format

string or null

Optional

Defaults to url

The format in which the generated images are returned. Must be one of `url` or
`b64_json`.

size

string or null

Optional

Defaults to 1024x1024

The size of the generated images. Must be one of `256x256`, `512x512`, or
`1024x1024`.

user

string

Optional

A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to
monitor and detect abuse. Learn more.

### Returns

Returns a list of image objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/images/variations \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -F image="@otter.png" \
      -F n=2 \
      -F size="1024x1024"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    {
      "created": 1589478378,
      "data": [
        {
          "url": "https://..."
        },
        {
          "url": "https://..."
        }
      ]
    }

## Models

List and describe the various models available in the API. You can refer to
the Models documentation to understand what models are available and the
differences between them.

## The model object

Describes an OpenAI model offering that can be used with the API.

id

string

The model identifier, which can be referenced in the API endpoints.

created

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) when the model was created.

object

string

The object type, which is always "model".

owned_by

string

The organization that owns the model.

The model object

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "davinci",
      "object": "model",
      "created": 1686935002,
      "owned_by": "openai"
    }

## List models

get https://api.openai.com/v1/models

Lists the currently available models, and provides basic information about
each one such as the owner and availability.

### Returns

A list of model objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/models \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "model-id-0",
          "object": "model",
          "created": 1686935002,
          "owned_by": "organization-owner"
        },
        {
          "id": "model-id-1",
          "object": "model",
          "created": 1686935002,
          "owned_by": "organization-owner",
        },
        {
          "id": "model-id-2",
          "object": "model",
          "created": 1686935002,
          "owned_by": "openai"
        },
      ],
      "object": "list"
    }

## Retrieve model

get https://api.openai.com/v1/models/{model}

Retrieves a model instance, providing basic information about the model such
as the owner and permissioning.

### Path parameters

model

string

Required

The ID of the model to use for this request

### Returns

The model object matching the specified ID.

Example request

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/models/gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct",
      "object": "model",
      "created": 1686935002,
      "owned_by": "openai"
    }

## Delete fine-tune model

delete https://api.openai.com/v1/models/{model}

Delete a fine-tuned model. You must have the Owner role in your organization
to delete a model.

### Path parameters

model

string

Required

The model to delete

### Returns

Deletion status.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/models/ft:gpt-3.5-turbo:acemeco:suffix:abc123 \
      -X DELETE \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    {
      "id": "ft:gpt-3.5-turbo:acemeco:suffix:abc123",
      "object": "model",
      "deleted": true
    }

## Moderations

Given a input text, outputs if the model classifies it as violating OpenAI's
content policy.

Related guide: Moderations

## The moderation object

Represents policy compliance report by OpenAI's content moderation model
against a given input.

id

string

The unique identifier for the moderation request.

model

string

The model used to generate the moderation results.

results

array

A list of moderation objects.

Show properties

The moderation object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    {
      "id": "modr-XXXXX",
      "model": "text-moderation-005",
      "results": [
        {
          "flagged": true,
          "categories": {
            "sexual": false,
            "hate": false,
            "harassment": false,
            "self-harm": false,
            "sexual/minors": false,
            "hate/threatening": false,
            "violence/graphic": false,
            "self-harm/intent": false,
            "self-harm/instructions": false,
            "harassment/threatening": true,
            "violence": true,
          },
          "category_scores": {
            "sexual": 1.2282071e-06,
            "hate": 0.010696256,
            "harassment": 0.29842457,
            "self-harm": 1.5236925e-08,
            "sexual/minors": 5.7246268e-08,
            "hate/threatening": 0.0060676364,
            "violence/graphic": 4.435014e-06,
            "self-harm/intent": 8.098441e-10,
            "self-harm/instructions": 2.8498655e-11,
            "harassment/threatening": 0.63055265,
            "violence": 0.99011886,
          }
        }
      ]
    }

## Create moderation

post https://api.openai.com/v1/moderations

Classifies if text violates OpenAI's Content Policy

### Request body

input

string or array

Required

The input text to classify

model

string

Optional

Defaults to text-moderation-latest

Two content moderations models are available: `text-moderation-stable` and
`text-moderation-latest`.

The default is `text-moderation-latest` which will be automatically upgraded
over time. This ensures you are always using our most accurate model. If you
use `text-moderation-stable`, we will provide advanced notice before updating
the model. Accuracy of `text-moderation-stable` may be slightly lower than for
`text-moderation-latest`.

### Returns

A moderation object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/moderations \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -d '{
        "input": "I want to kill them."
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    {
      "id": "modr-XXXXX",
      "model": "text-moderation-005",
      "results": [
        {
          "flagged": true,
          "categories": {
            "sexual": false,
            "hate": false,
            "harassment": false,
            "self-harm": false,
            "sexual/minors": false,
            "hate/threatening": false,
            "violence/graphic": false,
            "self-harm/intent": false,
            "self-harm/instructions": false,
            "harassment/threatening": true,
            "violence": true,
          },
          "category_scores": {
            "sexual": 1.2282071e-06,
            "hate": 0.010696256,
            "harassment": 0.29842457,
            "self-harm": 1.5236925e-08,
            "sexual/minors": 5.7246268e-08,
            "hate/threatening": 0.0060676364,
            "violence/graphic": 4.435014e-06,
            "self-harm/intent": 8.098441e-10,
            "self-harm/instructions": 2.8498655e-11,
            "harassment/threatening": 0.63055265,
            "violence": 0.99011886,
          }
        }
      ]
    }

## Assistants

Beta

Build assistants that can call models and use tools to perform tasks.

Get started with the Assistants API

## The assistant object

Beta

Represents an `assistant` that can call the model and use tools.

id

string

The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

object

string

The object type, which is always `assistant`.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the assistant was created.

name

string or null

The name of the assistant. The maximum length is 256 characters.

description

string or null

The description of the assistant. The maximum length is 512 characters.

model

string

ID of the model to use. You can use the List models API to see all of your
available models, or see our Model overview for descriptions of them.

instructions

string or null

The system instructions that the assistant uses. The maximum length is 32768
characters.

tools

array

A list of tool enabled on the assistant. There can be a maximum of 128 tools
per assistant. Tools can be of types `code_interpreter`, `retrieval`, or
`function`.

Show possible types

file_ids

array

A list of file IDs attached to this assistant. There can be a maximum of 20
files attached to the assistant. Files are ordered by their creation date in
ascending order.

metadata

map

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

The assistant object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    {
      "id": "asst_abc123",
      "object": "assistant",
      "created_at": 1698984975,
      "name": "Math Tutor",
      "description": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": "You are a personal math tutor. When asked a question, write and run Python code to answer the question.",
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "code_interpreter"
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Create assistant

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants

Create an assistant with a model and instructions.

### Request body

model

Required

ID of the model to use. You can use the List models API to see all of your
available models, or see our Model overview for descriptions of them.

name

string or null

Optional

The name of the assistant. The maximum length is 256 characters.

description

string or null

Optional

The description of the assistant. The maximum length is 512 characters.

instructions

string or null

Optional

The system instructions that the assistant uses. The maximum length is 32768
characters.

tools

array

Optional

Defaults to []

A list of tool enabled on the assistant. There can be a maximum of 128 tools
per assistant. Tools can be of types `code_interpreter`, `retrieval`, or
`function`.

Show possible types

file_ids

array

Optional

Defaults to []

A list of file IDs attached to this assistant. There can be a maximum of 20
files attached to the assistant. Files are ordered by their creation date in
ascending order.

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

An assistant object.

Code InterpreterFiles

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    curl "https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants" \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1" \
      -d '{
        "instructions": "You are a personal math tutor. When asked a question, write and run Python code to answer the question.",
        "name": "Math Tutor"
        "tools": [{"type": "code_interpreter"}],
        "model": "gpt-4"
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    {
      "id": "asst_abc123",
      "object": "assistant",
      "created_at": 1698984975,
      "name": "Math Tutor",
      "description": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": "You are a personal math tutor. When asked a question, write and run Python code to answer the question.",
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "code_interpreter"
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Retrieve assistant

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/{assistant_id}

Retrieves an assistant.

### Path parameters

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant to retrieve.

### Returns

The assistant object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/asst_abc123 \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    {
      "id": "asst_abc123",
      "object": "assistant",
      "created_at": 1699009709,
      "name": "HR Helper",
      "description": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": "You are an HR bot, and you have access to files to answer employee questions about company policies.",
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "retrieval"
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [
        "file-abc123"
      ],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Modify assistant

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/{assistant_id}

Modifies an assistant.

### Path parameters

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant to modify.

### Request body

model

Optional

ID of the model to use. You can use the List models API to see all of your
available models, or see our Model overview for descriptions of them.

name

string or null

Optional

The name of the assistant. The maximum length is 256 characters.

description

string or null

Optional

The description of the assistant. The maximum length is 512 characters.

instructions

string or null

Optional

The system instructions that the assistant uses. The maximum length is 32768
characters.

tools

array

Optional

Defaults to []

A list of tool enabled on the assistant. There can be a maximum of 128 tools
per assistant. Tools can be of types `code_interpreter`, `retrieval`, or
`function`.

Show possible types

file_ids

array

Optional

Defaults to []

A list of File IDs attached to this assistant. There can be a maximum of 20
files attached to the assistant. Files are ordered by their creation date in
ascending order. If a file was previosuly attached to the list but does not
show up in the list, it will be deleted from the assistant.

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

The modified assistant object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/asst_abc123 \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1" \
      -d '{
          "instructions": "You are an HR bot, and you have access to files to answer employee questions about company policies. Always response with info from either of the files.",
          "tools": [{"type": "retrieval"}],
          "model": "gpt-4",
          "file_ids": ["file-abc123", "file-abc456"]
        }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    {
      "id": "asst_abc123",
      "object": "assistant",
      "created_at": 1699009709,
      "name": "HR Helper",
      "description": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": "You are an HR bot, and you have access to files to answer employee questions about company policies. Always response with info from either of the files.",
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "retrieval"
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [
        "file-abc123",
        "file-abc456"
      ],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Delete assistant

Beta

delete https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/{assistant_id}

Delete an assistant.

### Path parameters

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant to delete.

### Returns

Deletion status

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/asst_abc123 \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1" \
      -X DELETE

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    {
      "id": "asst_abc123",
      "object": "assistant.deleted",
      "deleted": true
    }

## List assistants

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants

Returns a list of assistants.

### Query parameters

limit

integer

Optional

Defaults to 20

A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

order

string

Optional

Defaults to desc

Sort order by the `created_at` timestamp of the objects. `asc` for ascending
order and `desc` for descending order.

after

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `after` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

before

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `before` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include before=obj_foo
in order to fetch the previous page of the list.

### Returns

A list of assistant objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl "https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants?order=desc&limit=20" \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    36
    37
    38
    39
    40
    41
    42
    43
    44
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "asst_abc123",
          "object": "assistant",
          "created_at": 1698982736,
          "name": "Coding Tutor",
          "description": null,
          "model": "gpt-4",
          "instructions": "You are a helpful assistant designed to make me better at coding!",
          "tools": [],
          "file_ids": [],
          "metadata": {}
        },
        {
          "id": "asst_abc456",
          "object": "assistant",
          "created_at": 1698982718,
          "name": "My Assistant",
          "description": null,
          "model": "gpt-4",
          "instructions": "You are a helpful assistant designed to make me better at coding!",
          "tools": [],
          "file_ids": [],
          "metadata": {}
        },
        {
          "id": "asst_abc789",
          "object": "assistant",
          "created_at": 1698982643,
          "name": null,
          "description": null,
          "model": "gpt-4",
          "instructions": null,
          "tools": [],
          "file_ids": [],
          "metadata": {}
        }
      ],
      "first_id": "asst_abc123",
      "last_id": "asst_abc789",
      "has_more": false
    }

## The assistant file object

Beta

A list of Files attached to an `assistant`.

id

string

The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

object

string

The object type, which is always `assistant.file`.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the assistant file was created.

assistant_id

string

The assistant ID that the file is attached to.

The assistant file object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "file-wB6RM6wHdA49HfS2DJ9fEyrH",
      "object": "assistant.file",
      "created_at": 1699055364,
      "assistant_id": "asst_FBOFvAOHhwEWMghbMGseaPGQ"
    }

## Create assistant file

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/{assistant_id}/files

Create an assistant file by attaching a File to an assistant.

### Path parameters

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant for which to create a File.

### Request body

file_id

string

Required

A File ID (with `purpose="assistants"`) that the assistant should use. Useful
for tools like `retrieval` and `code_interpreter` that can access files.

### Returns

An assistant file object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/asst_FBOFvAOHhwEWMghbMGseaPGQ/files \
        -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"' \
        -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
        -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1' \
        -d '{
          "file_id": "file-wB6RM6wHdA49HfS2DJ9fEyrH"
        }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "file-wB6RM6wHdA49HfS2DJ9fEyrH",
      "object": "assistant.file",
      "created_at": 1699055364,
      "assistant_id": "asst_FBOFvAOHhwEWMghbMGseaPGQ"
    }

## Retrieve assistant file

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/{assistant_id}/files/{file_id}

Retrieves an AssistantFile.

### Path parameters

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant who the file belongs to.

file_id

string

Required

The ID of the file we're getting.

### Returns

The assistant file object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/asst_FBOFvAOHhwEWMghbMGseaPGQ/files/file-wB6RM6wHdA49HfS2DJ9fEyrH \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "file-wB6RM6wHdA49HfS2DJ9fEyrH",
      "object": "assistant.file",
      "created_at": 1699055364,
      "assistant_id": "asst_FBOFvAOHhwEWMghbMGseaPGQ"
    }

## Delete assistant file

Beta

delete https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/{assistant_id}/files/{file_id}

Delete an assistant file.

### Path parameters

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant that the file belongs to.

file_id

string

Required

The ID of the file to delete.

### Returns

Deletion status

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/asst_DUGk5I7sK0FpKeijvrO30z9J/files/file-9F1ex49ipEnKzyLUNnCA0Yzx \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1' \
      -X DELETE

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    {
      id: "file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo",
      object: "assistant.file.deleted",
      deleted: true
    }

## List assistant files

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/{assistant_id}/files

Returns a list of assistant files.

### Path parameters

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant the file belongs to.

### Query parameters

limit

integer

Optional

Defaults to 20

A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

order

string

Optional

Defaults to desc

Sort order by the `created_at` timestamp of the objects. `asc` for ascending
order and `desc` for descending order.

after

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `after` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

before

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `before` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include before=obj_foo
in order to fetch the previous page of the list.

### Returns

A list of assistant file objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/assistants/asst_DUGk5I7sK0FpKeijvrO30z9J/files \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP",
          "object": "assistant.file",
          "created_at": 1699060412,
          "assistant_id": "asst_DUGk5I7sK0FpKeijvrO30z9J"
        },
        {
          "id": "file-9F1ex49ipEnKzyLUNnCA0Yzx",
          "object": "assistant.file",
          "created_at": 1699060412,
          "assistant_id": "asst_DUGk5I7sK0FpKeijvrO30z9J"
        }
      ],
      "first_id": "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP",
      "last_id": "file-9F1ex49ipEnKzyLUNnCA0Yzx",
      "has_more": false
    }

## Threads

Beta

Create threads that assistants can interact with.

Related guide: Assistants

## The thread object

Beta

Represents a thread that contains messages.

id

string

The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

object

string

The object type, which is always `thread`.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the thread was created.

metadata

map

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

The thread object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "thread_abc123",
      "object": "thread",
      "created_at": 1698107661,
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Create thread

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/threads

Create a thread.

### Request body

messages

array

Optional

A list of messages to start the thread with.

Show properties

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

A thread object.

EmptyMessages

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1" \
      -d ''

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "thread_abc123",
      "object": "thread",
      "created_at": 1699012949,
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Retrieve thread

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}

Retrieves a thread.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to retrieve.

### Returns

The thread object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_abc123 \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "thread_abc123",
      "object": "thread",
      "created_at": 1699014083,
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Modify thread

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}

Modifies a thread.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to modify. Only the `metadata` can be modified.

### Request body

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

The modified thread object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_abc123 \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1" \
      -d '{
          "metadata": {
            "modified": "true",
            "user": "abc123"
          }
        }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    {
      "id": "thread_abc123",
      "object": "thread",
      "created_at": 1699014083,
      "metadata": {
        "modified": "true",
        "user": "abc123"
      }
    }

## Delete thread

Beta

delete https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}

Delete a thread.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to delete.

### Returns

Deletion status

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_abc123 \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1" \
      -X DELETE

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    {
      "id": "thread_abc123",
      "object": "thread.deleted",
      "deleted": true
    }

## Messages

Beta

Create messages within threads

Related guide: Assistants

## The message object

Beta

Represents a message within a thread.

id

string

The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

object

string

The object type, which is always `thread.message`.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the message was created.

thread_id

string

The thread ID that this message belongs to.

role

string

The entity that produced the message. One of `user` or `assistant`.

content

array

The content of the message in array of text and/or images.

Show possible types

assistant_id

string or null

If applicable, the ID of the assistant that authored this message.

run_id

string or null

If applicable, the ID of the run associated with the authoring of this
message.

file_ids

array

A list of file IDs that the assistant should use. Useful for tools like
retrieval and code_interpreter that can access files. A maximum of 10 files
can be attached to a message.

metadata

map

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

The message object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "id": "msg_dKYDWyQvtjDBi3tudL1yWKDa",
      "object": "thread.message",
      "created_at": 1698983503,
      "thread_id": "thread_RGUhOuO9b2nrktrmsQ2uSR6I",
      "role": "assistant",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": {
            "value": "Hi! How can I help you today?",
            "annotations": []
          }
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [],
      "assistant_id": "asst_ToSF7Gb04YMj8AMMm50ZLLtY",
      "run_id": "run_BjylUJgDqYK9bOhy4yjAiMrn",
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Create message

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/messages

Create a message.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to create a message for.

### Request body

role

string

Required

The role of the entity that is creating the message. Currently only `user` is
supported.

content

string

Required

The content of the message.

file_ids

array

Optional

Defaults to []

A list of File IDs that the message should use. There can be a maximum of 10
files attached to a message. Useful for tools like `retrieval` and
`code_interpreter` that can access and use files.

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

A message object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_abc123/messages \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1" \
      -d '{
          "role": "user",
          "content": "How does AI work? Explain it in simple terms."
        }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "id": "msg_abc123",
      "object": "thread.message",
      "created_at": 1699017614,
      "thread_id": "thread_abc123",
      "role": "user",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": {
            "value": "How does AI work? Explain it in simple terms.",
            "annotations": []
          }
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [],
      "assistant_id": null,
      "run_id": null,
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Retrieve message

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/messages/{message_id}

Retrieve a message.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to which this message belongs.

message_id

string

Required

The ID of the message to retrieve.

### Returns

The message object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_abc123/messages/msg_abc123 \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "id": "msg_abc123",
      "object": "thread.message",
      "created_at": 1699017614,
      "thread_id": "thread_abc123",
      "role": "user",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": {
            "value": "How does AI work? Explain it in simple terms.",
            "annotations": []
          }
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [],
      "assistant_id": null,
      "run_id": null,
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Modify message

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/messages/{message_id}

Modifies a message.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to which this message belongs.

message_id

string

Required

The ID of the message to modify.

### Request body

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

The modified message object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_abc123/messages/msg_abc123 \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1" \
      -d '{
          "metadata": {
            "modified": "true",
            "user": "abc123"
          }
        }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    {
      "id": "msg_abc123",
      "object": "thread.message",
      "created_at": 1699017614,
      "thread_id": "thread_abc123",
      "role": "user",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": {
            "value": "How does AI work? Explain it in simple terms.",
            "annotations": []
          }
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [],
      "assistant_id": null,
      "run_id": null,
      "metadata": {
        "modified": "true",
        "user": "abc123"
      }
    }

## List messages

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/messages

Returns a list of messages for a given thread.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread the messages belong to.

### Query parameters

limit

integer

Optional

Defaults to 20

A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

order

string

Optional

Defaults to desc

Sort order by the `created_at` timestamp of the objects. `asc` for ascending
order and `desc` for descending order.

after

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `after` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

before

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `before` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include before=obj_foo
in order to fetch the previous page of the list.

### Returns

A list of message objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_abc123/messages \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -H "OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    36
    37
    38
    39
    40
    41
    42
    43
    44
    45
    46
    47
    48
    49
    50
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "msg_abc123",
          "object": "thread.message",
          "created_at": 1699016383,
          "thread_id": "thread_abc123",
          "role": "user",
          "content": [
            {
              "type": "text",
              "text": {
                "value": "How does AI work? Explain it in simple terms.",
                "annotations": []
              }
            }
          ],
          "file_ids": [],
          "assistant_id": null,
          "run_id": null,
          "metadata": {}
        },
        {
          "id": "msg_abc456",
          "object": "thread.message",
          "created_at": 1699016383,
          "thread_id": "thread_abc123",
          "role": "user",
          "content": [
            {
              "type": "text",
              "text": {
                "value": "Hello, what is AI?",
                "annotations": []
              }
            }
          ],
          "file_ids": [
            "file-abc123"
          ],
          "assistant_id": null,
          "run_id": null,
          "metadata": {}
        }
      ],
      "first_id": "msg_abc123",
      "last_id": "msg_abc456",
      "has_more": false
    }

## The message file object

Beta

A list of files attached to a `message`.

id

string

The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

object

string

The object type, which is always `thread.message.file`.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the message file was created.

message_id

string

The ID of the message that the File is attached to.

The message file object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    {
      "id": "file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo",
      "object": "thread.message.file",
      "created_at": 1698107661,
      "message_id": "message_QLoItBbqwyAJEzlTy4y9kOMM",
      "file_id": "file-BK7bzQj3FfZFXr7DbL6xJwfo"
    }

## Retrieve message file

Beta

get
https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/messages/{message_id}/files/{file_id}

Retrieves a message file.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to which the message and File belong.

message_id

string

Required

The ID of the message the file belongs to.

file_id

string

Required

The ID of the file being retrieved.

### Returns

The message file object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_RGUhOuO9b2nrktrmsQ2uSR6I/messages/msg_q3XhbGmMzsqEFa81gMLBDAVU/files/file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "id": "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP",
      "object": "thread.message.file",
      "created_at": 1699061776,
      "message_id": "msg_q3XhbGmMzsqEFa81gMLBDAVU"
    }

## List message files

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/messages/{message_id}/files

Returns a list of message files.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread that the message and files belong to.

message_id

string

Required

The ID of the message that the files belongs to.

### Query parameters

limit

integer

Optional

Defaults to 20

A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

order

string

Optional

Defaults to desc

Sort order by the `created_at` timestamp of the objects. `asc` for ascending
order and `desc` for descending order.

after

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `after` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

before

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `before` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include before=obj_foo
in order to fetch the previous page of the list.

### Returns

A list of message file objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_RGUhOuO9b2nrktrmsQ2uSR6I/messages/msg_q3XhbGmMzsqEFa81gMLBDAVU/files \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP",
          "object": "thread.message.file",
          "created_at": 1699061776,
          "message_id": "msg_q3XhbGmMzsqEFa81gMLBDAVU"
        },
        {
          "id": "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP",
          "object": "thread.message.file",
          "created_at": 1699061776,
          "message_id": "msg_q3XhbGmMzsqEFa81gMLBDAVU"
        }
      ],
      "first_id": "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP",
      "last_id": "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP",
      "has_more": false
    }

## Runs

Beta

Represents an execution run on a thread.

Related guide: Assistants

## The run object

Beta

Represents an execution run on a thread.

id

string

The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

object

string

The object type, which is always `assistant.run`.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run was created.

thread_id

string

The ID of the thread that was executed on as a part of this run.

assistant_id

string

The ID of the assistant used for execution of this run.

status

string

The status of the run, which can be either `queued`, `in_progress`,
`requires_action`, `cancelling`, `cancelled`, `failed`, `completed`, or
`expired`.

required_action

object or null

Details on the action required to continue the run. Will be `null` if no
action is required.

Show properties

last_error

object or null

The last error associated with this run. Will be `null` if there are no
errors.

Show properties

expires_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run will expire.

started_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run was started.

cancelled_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run was cancelled.

failed_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run failed.

completed_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run was completed.

model

string

The model that the assistant used for this run.

instructions

string

The instructions that the assistant used for this run.

tools

array

The list of tools that the assistant used for this run.

Show possible types

file_ids

array

The list of File IDs the assistant used for this run.

metadata

map

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

The run object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    {
      "id": "run_example123",
      "object": "thread.run",
      "created_at": 1698107661,
      "assistant_id": "asst_gZ1aOomboBuYWPcXJx4vAYB0",
      "thread_id": "thread_adOpf7Jbb5Abymz0QbwxAh3c",
      "status": "completed",
      "started_at": 1699073476,
      "expires_at": null,
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "completed_at": 1699073498,
      "last_error": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": null,
      "tools": [{"type": "retrieval"}, {"type": "code_interpreter"}],
      "file_ids": [],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Create run

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/runs

Create a run.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to run.

### Request body

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant to use to execute this run.

model

string or null

Optional

The ID of the Model to be used to execute this run. If a value is provided
here, it will override the model associated with the assistant. If not, the
model associated with the assistant will be used.

instructions

string or null

Optional

Override the default system message of the assistant. This is useful for
modifying the behavior on a per-run basis.

tools

array or null

Optional

Override the tools the assistant can use for this run. This is useful for
modifying the behavior on a per-run basis.

Show possible types

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

A run object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs/runs \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1' \
      -d '{
        "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ"
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    {
      "id": "run_UWvV94U0FQYiT2rlbBrdEVmC",
      "object": "thread.run",
      "created_at": 1699063290,
      "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ",
      "thread_id": "thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs",
      "status": "queued",
      "started_at": 1699063290,
      "expires_at": null,
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "completed_at": 1699063291,
      "last_error": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": null,
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "code_interpreter"
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [
        "file-9F1ex49ipEnKzyLUNnCA0Yzx",
        "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP"
      ],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Retrieve run

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/runs/{run_id}

Retrieves a run.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread that was run.

run_id

string

Required

The ID of the run to retrieve.

### Returns

The run object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs/runs/run_5pyUEwhaPk11vCKiDneUWXXY \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    {
      "id": "run_5pyUEwhaPk11vCKiDneUWXXY",
      "object": "thread.run",
      "created_at": 1699075072,
      "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ",
      "thread_id": "thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs",
      "status": "completed",
      "started_at": 1699075072,
      "expires_at": null,
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "completed_at": 1699075073,
      "last_error": null,
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
      "instructions": null,
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "code_interpreter"
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [
        "file-9F1ex49ipEnKzyLUNnCA0Yzx",
        "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP"
      ],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Modify run

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/runs/{run_id}

Modifies a run.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread that was run.

run_id

string

Required

The ID of the run to modify.

### Request body

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

The modified run object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs/runs/run_5pyUEwhaPk11vCKiDneUWXXY \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1' \
      -d '{
        "metadata": {
          "user_id": "user_zmVY6FvuBDDwIqM4KgH"
        }
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    {
      "id": "run_5pyUEwhaPk11vCKiDneUWXXY",
      "object": "thread.run",
      "created_at": 1699075072,
      "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ",
      "thread_id": "thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs",
      "status": "completed",
      "started_at": 1699075072,
      "expires_at": null,
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "completed_at": 1699075073,
      "last_error": null,
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
      "instructions": null,
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "code_interpreter"
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [
        "file-9F1ex49ipEnKzyLUNnCA0Yzx",
        "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP"
      ],
      "metadata": {
        "user_id": "user_zmVY6FvuBDDwIqM4KgH"
      }
    }

## List runs

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/runs

Returns a list of runs belonging to a thread.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread the run belongs to.

### Query parameters

limit

integer

Optional

Defaults to 20

A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

order

string

Optional

Defaults to desc

Sort order by the `created_at` timestamp of the objects. `asc` for ascending
order and `desc` for descending order.

after

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `after` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

before

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `before` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include before=obj_foo
in order to fetch the previous page of the list.

### Returns

A list of run objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs/runs \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    36
    37
    38
    39
    40
    41
    42
    43
    44
    45
    46
    47
    48
    49
    50
    51
    52
    53
    54
    55
    56
    57
    58
    59
    60
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "run_5pyUEwhaPk11vCKiDneUWXXY",
          "object": "thread.run",
          "created_at": 1699075072,
          "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ",
          "thread_id": "thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs",
          "status": "completed",
          "started_at": 1699075072,
          "expires_at": null,
          "cancelled_at": null,
          "failed_at": null,
          "completed_at": 1699075073,
          "last_error": null,
          "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
          "instructions": null,
          "tools": [
            {
              "type": "code_interpreter"
            }
          ],
          "file_ids": [
            "file-9F1ex49ipEnKzyLUNnCA0Yzx",
            "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP"
          ],
          "metadata": {}
        },
        {
          "id": "run_UWvV94U0FQYiT2rlbBrdEVmC",
          "object": "thread.run",
          "created_at": 1699063290,
          "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ",
          "thread_id": "thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs",
          "status": "completed",
          "started_at": 1699063290,
          "expires_at": null,
          "cancelled_at": null,
          "failed_at": null,
          "completed_at": 1699063291,
          "last_error": null,
          "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
          "instructions": null,
          "tools": [
            {
              "type": "code_interpreter"
            }
          ],
          "file_ids": [
            "file-9F1ex49ipEnKzyLUNnCA0Yzx",
            "file-dEWwUbt2UGHp3v0e0DpCzemP"
          ],
          "metadata": {}
        }
      ],
      "first_id": "run_5pyUEwhaPk11vCKiDneUWXXY",
      "last_id": "run_UWvV94U0FQYiT2rlbBrdEVmC",
      "has_more": false
    }

## Submit tool outputs to run

Beta

post
https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/runs/{run_id}/submit_tool_outputs

When a run has the `status: "requires_action"` and `required_action.type` is
`submit_tool_outputs`, this endpoint can be used to submit the outputs from
the tool calls once they're all completed. All outputs must be submitted in a
single request.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to which this run belongs.

run_id

string

Required

The ID of the run that requires the tool output submission.

### Request body

tool_outputs

array

Required

A list of tools for which the outputs are being submitted.

Show properties

### Returns

The modified run object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_EdR8UvCDJ035LFEJZMt3AxCd/runs/run_PHLyHQYIQn4F7JrSXslEYWwh/submit_tool_outputs \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1' \
      -d '{
        "tool_outputs": [
          {
            "tool_call_id": "call_MbELIQcB72cq35Yzo2MRw5qs",
            "output": "28C"
          }
        ]
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    36
    37
    38
    39
    40
    41
    42
    43
    44
    45
    46
    {
      "id": "run_PHLyHQYIQn4F7JrSXslEYWwh",
      "object": "thread.run",
      "created_at": 1699075592,
      "assistant_id": "asst_IgmpQTah3ZfPHCVZjTqAY8Kv",
      "thread_id": "thread_EdR8UvCDJ035LFEJZMt3AxCd",
      "status": "queued",
      "started_at": 1699075592,
      "expires_at": 1699076192,
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "completed_at": null,
      "last_error": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": "You tell the weather.",
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "function",
          "function": {
            "name": "get_weather",
            "description": "Determine weather in my location",
            "parameters": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                "location": {
                  "type": "string",
                  "description": "The city and state e.g. San Francisco, CA"
                },
                "unit": {
                  "type": "string",
                  "enum": [
                    "c",
                    "f"
                  ]
                }
              },
              "required": [
                "location"
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Cancel a run

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/runs/{run_id}/cancel

Cancels a run that is `in_progress`.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to which this run belongs.

run_id

string

Required

The ID of the run to cancel.

### Returns

The modified run object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_1cjnJPXj8MFiqTx58jU9TivC/runs/run_BeRGmpGt2wb1VI22ZRniOkrR/cancel \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1' \
      -X POST

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    {
      "id": "run_BeRGmpGt2wb1VI22ZRniOkrR",
      "object": "thread.run",
      "created_at": 1699076126,
      "assistant_id": "asst_IgmpQTah3ZfPHCVZjTqAY8Kv",
      "thread_id": "thread_1cjnJPXj8MFiqTx58jU9TivC",
      "status": "cancelling",
      "started_at": 1699076126,
      "expires_at": 1699076726,
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "completed_at": null,
      "last_error": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": "You summarize books.",
      "tools": [
        {
          "type": "retrieval"
        }
      ],
      "file_ids": [],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## Create thread and run

Beta

post https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/runs

Create a thread and run it in one request.

### Request body

assistant_id

string

Required

The ID of the assistant to use to execute this run.

thread

object

Optional

Show properties

model

string or null

Optional

The ID of the Model to be used to execute this run. If a value is provided
here, it will override the model associated with the assistant. If not, the
model associated with the assistant will be used.

instructions

string or null

Optional

Override the default system message of the assistant. This is useful for
modifying the behavior on a per-run basis.

tools

array or null

Optional

Override the tools the assistant can use for this run. This is useful for
modifying the behavior on a per-run basis.

metadata

map

Optional

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

### Returns

A run object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/runs \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1' \
      -d '{
          "assistant_id": "asst_IgmpQTah3ZfPHCVZjTqAY8Kv",
          "thread": {
            "messages": [
              {"role": "user", "content": "Explain deep learning to a 5 year old."}
            ]
          }
        }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    {
      "id": "run_3Qudf05GGhCleEg9ggwfJQih",
      "object": "thread.run",
      "created_at": 1699076792,
      "assistant_id": "asst_IgmpQTah3ZfPHCVZjTqAY8Kv",
      "thread_id": "thread_Ec3eKZcWI00WDZRC7FZci8hP",
      "status": "queued",
      "started_at": null,
      "expires_at": 1699077392,
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "completed_at": null,
      "last_error": null,
      "model": "gpt-4",
      "instructions": "You are a helpful assistant.",
      "tools": [],
      "file_ids": [],
      "metadata": {}
    }

## The run step object

Beta

Represents a step in execution of a run.

id

string

The identifier of the run step, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

object

string

The object type, which is always `assistant.run.step``.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run step was created.

assistant_id

string

The ID of the assistant associated with the run step.

thread_id

string

The ID of the thread that was run.

run_id

string

The ID of the run that this run step is a part of.

type

string

The type of run step, which can be either `message_creation` or `tool_calls`.

status

string

The status of the run, which can be either `in_progress`, `cancelled`,
`failed`, `completed`, or `expired`.

step_details

object

The details of the run step.

Show possible types

last_error

object or null

The last error associated with this run step. Will be `null` if there are no
errors.

Show properties

expired_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run step expired. A step is
considered expired if the parent run is expired.

cancelled_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run step was cancelled.

failed_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run step failed.

completed_at

integer or null

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run step completed.

metadata

map

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium
of 512 characters long.

The run step object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    {
      "id": "step_QyjyrsVsysd7F4K894BZHG97",
      "object": "thread.run.step",
      "created_at": 1699063291,
      "run_id": "run_UWvV94U0FQYiT2rlbBrdEVmC",
      "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ",
      "thread_id": "thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs",
      "type": "message_creation",
      "status": "completed",
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "completed_at": 1699063291,
      "expired_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "last_error": null,
      "step_details": {
        "type": "message_creation",
        "message_creation": {
          "message_id": "msg_6YmiCRmMbbE6FALYNePPHqwm"
        }
      }
    }

## Retrieve run step

Beta

get
https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/runs/{run_id}/steps/{step_id}

Retrieves a run step.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread to which the run and run step belongs.

run_id

string

Required

The ID of the run to which the run step belongs.

step_id

string

Required

The ID of the run step to retrieve.

### Returns

The run step object matching the specified ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs/runs/run_UWvV94U0FQYiT2rlbBrdEVmC/steps/step_QyjyrsVsysd7F4K894BZHG97 \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    {
      "id": "step_QyjyrsVsysd7F4K894BZHG97",
      "object": "thread.run.step",
      "created_at": 1699063291,
      "run_id": "run_UWvV94U0FQYiT2rlbBrdEVmC",
      "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ",
      "thread_id": "thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs",
      "type": "message_creation",
      "status": "completed",
      "cancelled_at": null,
      "completed_at": 1699063291,
      "expired_at": null,
      "failed_at": null,
      "last_error": null,
      "step_details": {
        "type": "message_creation",
        "message_creation": {
          "message_id": "msg_6YmiCRmMbbE6FALYNePPHqwm"
        }
      }
    }

## List run steps

Beta

get https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/{thread_id}/runs/{run_id}/steps

Returns a list of run steps belonging to a run.

### Path parameters

thread_id

string

Required

The ID of the thread the run and run steps belong to.

run_id

string

Required

The ID of the run the run steps belong to.

### Query parameters

limit

integer

Optional

Defaults to 20

A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

order

string

Optional

Defaults to desc

Sort order by the `created_at` timestamp of the objects. `asc` for ascending
order and `desc` for descending order.

after

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `after` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

before

string

Optional

A cursor for use in pagination. `before` is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include before=obj_foo
in order to fetch the previous page of the list.

### Returns

A list of run step objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/threads/thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs/runs/run_UWvV94U0FQYiT2rlbBrdEVmC/steps \
      -H 'Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'OpenAI-Beta: assistants=v1'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "step_QyjyrsVsysd7F4K894BZHG97",
          "object": "thread.run.step",
          "created_at": 1699063291,
          "run_id": "run_UWvV94U0FQYiT2rlbBrdEVmC",
          "assistant_id": "asst_nGl00s4xa9zmVY6Fvuvz9wwQ",
          "thread_id": "thread_BDDwIqM4KgHibXX3mqmN3Lgs",
          "type": "message_creation",
          "status": "completed",
          "cancelled_at": null,
          "completed_at": 1699063291,
          "expired_at": null,
          "failed_at": null,
          "last_error": null,
          "step_details": {
            "type": "message_creation",
            "message_creation": {
              "message_id": "msg_6YmiCRmMbbE6FALYNePPHqwm"
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "first_id": "step_QyjyrsVsysd7F4K894BZHG97",
      "last_id": "step_QyjyrsVsysd7F4K894BZHG97",
      "has_more": false
    }

## Fine-tunes

Deprecated

Manage legacy fine-tuning jobs to tailor a model to your specific training
data.

We recommend transitioning to the updating fine-tuning API

## The fine-tune object

Deprecated

The `FineTune` object represents a legacy fine-tune job that has been created
through the API.

id

string

The object identifier, which can be referenced in the API endpoints.

created_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the fine-tuning job was created.

events

array

The list of events that have been observed in the lifecycle of the FineTune
job.

Show properties

fine_tuned_model

string or null

The name of the fine-tuned model that is being created.

hyperparams

object

The hyperparameters used for the fine-tuning job. See the fine-tuning guide
for more details.

Show properties

model

string

The base model that is being fine-tuned.

object

string

The object type, which is always "fine-tune".

organization_id

string

The organization that owns the fine-tuning job.

result_files

array

The compiled results files for the fine-tuning job.

status

string

The current status of the fine-tuning job, which can be either `created`,
`running`, `succeeded`, `failed`, or `cancelled`.

training_files

array

The list of files used for training.

updated_at

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the fine-tuning job was last updated.

validation_files

array

The list of files used for validation.

The fine-tune object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    36
    37
    38
    39
    40
    41
    42
    43
    44
    45
    46
    47
    48
    49
    50
    51
    52
    53
    54
    55
    56
    57
    58
    59
    60
    61
    62
    63
    64
    65
    66
    67
    68
    69
    {
      "id": "ft-AF1WoRqd3aJAHsqc9NY7iL8F",
      "object": "fine-tune",
      "model": "curie",
      "created_at": 1614807352,
      "events": [
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807352,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job enqueued. Waiting for jobs ahead to complete. Queue number: 0."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807356,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job started."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807861,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Uploaded snapshot: curie:ft-acmeco-2021-03-03-21-44-20."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807864,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Uploaded result files: file-abc123."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807864,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job succeeded."
        }
      ],
      "fine_tuned_model": "curie:ft-acmeco-2021-03-03-21-44-20",
      "hyperparams": {
        "batch_size": 4,
        "learning_rate_multiplier": 0.1,
        "n_epochs": 4,
        "prompt_loss_weight": 0.1,
      },
      "organization_id": "org-123",
      "result_files": [
        {
          "id": "file-abc123",
          "object": "file",
          "bytes": 81509,
          "created_at": 1614807863,
          "filename": "compiled_results.csv",
          "purpose": "fine-tune-results"
        }
      ],
      "status": "succeeded",
      "validation_files": [],
      "training_files": [
        {
          "id": "file-abc123",
          "object": "file",
          "bytes": 1547276,
          "created_at": 1610062281,
          "filename": "my-data-train.jsonl",
          "purpose": "fine-tune"
        }
      ],
      "updated_at": 1614807865,
    }

## Create fine-tune

Deprecated

post https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes

Creates a job that fine-tunes a specified model from a given dataset.

Response includes details of the enqueued job including job status and the
name of the fine-tuned models once complete.

Learn more about fine-tuning

### Request body

training_file

string

Required

The ID of an uploaded file that contains training data.

See upload file for how to upload a file.

Your dataset must be formatted as a JSONL file, where each training example is
a JSON object with the keys "prompt" and "completion". Additionally, you must
upload your file with the purpose `fine-tune`.

See the fine-tuning guide for more details.

batch_size

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to null

The batch size to use for training. The batch size is the number of training
examples used to train a single forward and backward pass.

By default, the batch size will be dynamically configured to be ~0.2% of the
number of examples in the training set, capped at 256 - in general, we've
found that larger batch sizes tend to work better for larger datasets.

classification_betas

array or null

Optional

Defaults to null

If this is provided, we calculate F-beta scores at the specified beta values.
The F-beta score is a generalization of F-1 score. This is only used for
binary classification.

With a beta of 1 (i.e. the F-1 score), precision and recall are given the same
weight. A larger beta score puts more weight on recall and less on precision.
A smaller beta score puts more weight on precision and less on recall.

classification_n_classes

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to null

The number of classes in a classification task.

This parameter is required for multiclass classification.

classification_positive_class

string or null

Optional

Defaults to null

The positive class in binary classification.

This parameter is needed to generate precision, recall, and F1 metrics when
doing binary classification.

compute_classification_metrics

boolean or null

Optional

Defaults to false

If set, we calculate classification-specific metrics such as accuracy and F-1
score using the validation set at the end of every epoch. These metrics can be
viewed in the results file.

In order to compute classification metrics, you must provide a
`validation_file`. Additionally, you must specify `classification_n_classes`
for multiclass classification or `classification_positive_class` for binary
classification.

hyperparameters

object

Optional

The hyperparameters used for the fine-tuning job.

Show properties

learning_rate_multiplier

number or null

Optional

Defaults to null

The learning rate multiplier to use for training. The fine-tuning learning
rate is the original learning rate used for pretraining multiplied by this
value.

By default, the learning rate multiplier is the 0.05, 0.1, or 0.2 depending on
final `batch_size` (larger learning rates tend to perform better with larger
batch sizes). We recommend experimenting with values in the range 0.02 to 0.2
to see what produces the best results.

model

string

Optional

Defaults to curie

The name of the base model to fine-tune. You can select one of "ada",
"babbage", "curie", "davinci", or a fine-tuned model created after 2022-04-21
and before 2023-08-22. To learn more about these models, see the Models
documentation.

prompt_loss_weight

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 0.01

The weight to use for loss on the prompt tokens. This controls how much the
model tries to learn to generate the prompt (as compared to the completion
which always has a weight of 1.0), and can add a stabilizing effect to
training when completions are short.

If prompts are extremely long (relative to completions), it may make sense to
reduce this weight so as to avoid over-prioritizing learning the prompt.

suffix

string or null

Optional

Defaults to null

A string of up to 40 characters that will be added to your fine-tuned model
name.

For example, a `suffix` of "custom-model-name" would produce a model name like
`ada:ft-your-org:custom-model-name-2022-02-15-04-21-04`.

validation_file

string or null

Optional

The ID of an uploaded file that contains validation data.

If you provide this file, the data is used to generate validation metrics
periodically during fine-tuning. These metrics can be viewed in the fine-
tuning results file. Your train and validation data should be mutually
exclusive.

Your dataset must be formatted as a JSONL file, where each validation example
is a JSON object with the keys "prompt" and "completion". Additionally, you
must upload your file with the purpose `fine-tune`.

See the fine-tuning guide for more details.

### Returns

A fine-tune object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -d '{
        "training_file": "file-abc123"
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    36
    {
      "id": "ft-AF1WoRqd3aJAHsqc9NY7iL8F",
      "object": "fine-tune",
      "model": "curie",
      "created_at": 1614807352,
      "events": [
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807352,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job enqueued. Waiting for jobs ahead to complete. Queue number: 0."
        }
      ],
      "fine_tuned_model": null,
      "hyperparams": {
        "batch_size": 4,
        "learning_rate_multiplier": 0.1,
        "n_epochs": 4,
        "prompt_loss_weight": 0.1,
      },
      "organization_id": "org-123",
      "result_files": [],
      "status": "pending",
      "validation_files": [],
      "training_files": [
        {
          "id": "file-abc123",
          "object": "file",
          "bytes": 1547276,
          "created_at": 1610062281,
          "filename": "my-data-train.jsonl",
          "purpose": "fine-tune-results"
        }
      ],
      "updated_at": 1614807352,
    }

## List fine-tunes

Deprecated

get https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes

List your organization's fine-tuning jobs

### Returns

A list of fine-tune objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "id": "ft-AF1WoRqd3aJAHsqc9NY7iL8F",
          "object": "fine-tune",
          "model": "curie",
          "created_at": 1614807352,
          "fine_tuned_model": null,
          "hyperparams": { ... },
          "organization_id": "org-123",
          "result_files": [],
          "status": "pending",
          "validation_files": [],
          "training_files": [ { ... } ],
          "updated_at": 1614807352,
        },
        { ... },
        { ... }
      ]
    }

## Retrieve fine-tune

Deprecated

get https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes/{fine_tune_id}

Gets info about the fine-tune job.

Learn more about fine-tuning

### Path parameters

fine_tune_id

string

Required

The ID of the fine-tune job

### Returns

The fine-tune object with the given ID.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes/ft-AF1WoRqd3aJAHsqc9NY7iL8F \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    36
    37
    38
    39
    40
    41
    42
    43
    44
    45
    46
    47
    48
    49
    50
    51
    52
    53
    54
    55
    56
    57
    58
    59
    60
    61
    62
    63
    64
    65
    66
    67
    68
    69
    {
      "id": "ft-AF1WoRqd3aJAHsqc9NY7iL8F",
      "object": "fine-tune",
      "model": "curie",
      "created_at": 1614807352,
      "events": [
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807352,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job enqueued. Waiting for jobs ahead to complete. Queue number: 0."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807356,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job started."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807861,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Uploaded snapshot: curie:ft-acmeco-2021-03-03-21-44-20."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807864,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Uploaded result files: file-abc123."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807864,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job succeeded."
        }
      ],
      "fine_tuned_model": "curie:ft-acmeco-2021-03-03-21-44-20",
      "hyperparams": {
        "batch_size": 4,
        "learning_rate_multiplier": 0.1,
        "n_epochs": 4,
        "prompt_loss_weight": 0.1,
      },
      "organization_id": "org-123",
      "result_files": [
        {
          "id": "file-abc123",
          "object": "file",
          "bytes": 81509,
          "created_at": 1614807863,
          "filename": "compiled_results.csv",
          "purpose": "fine-tune-results"
        }
      ],
      "status": "succeeded",
      "validation_files": [],
      "training_files": [
        {
          "id": "file-abc123",
          "object": "file",
          "bytes": 1547276,
          "created_at": 1610062281,
          "filename": "my-data-train.jsonl",
          "purpose": "fine-tune"
        }
      ],
      "updated_at": 1614807865,
    }

## Cancel fine-tune

Deprecated

post https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes/{fine_tune_id}/cancel

Immediately cancel a fine-tune job.

### Path parameters

fine_tune_id

string

Required

The ID of the fine-tune job to cancel

### Returns

The cancelled fine-tune object.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes/ft-AF1WoRqd3aJAHsqc9NY7iL8F/cancel \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    {
      "id": "ft-xhrpBbvVUzYGo8oUO1FY4nI7",
      "object": "fine-tune",
      "model": "curie",
      "created_at": 1614807770,
      "events": [ { ... } ],
      "fine_tuned_model": null,
      "hyperparams": { ... },
      "organization_id": "org-123",
      "result_files": [],
      "status": "cancelled",
      "validation_files": [],
      "training_files": [
        {
          "id": "file-abc123",
          "object": "file",
          "bytes": 1547276,
          "created_at": 1610062281,
          "filename": "my-data-train.jsonl",
          "purpose": "fine-tune"
        }
      ],
      "updated_at": 1614807789,
    }

## The fine-tune event object

Deprecated

Fine-tune event object

created_at

integer

level

string

message

string

object

string

The fine-tune event object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    {
      "object": "fine-tune-event",
      "created_at": 1677610602,
      "level": "info",
      "message": "Created fine-tune job"
    }

## List fine-tune events

Deprecated

get https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes/{fine_tune_id}/events

Get fine-grained status updates for a fine-tune job.

### Path parameters

fine_tune_id

string

Required

The ID of the fine-tune job to get events for.

### Query parameters

stream

boolean

Optional

Defaults to false

Whether to stream events for the fine-tune job. If set to true, events will be
sent as data-only server-sent events as they become available. The stream will
terminate with a `data: [DONE]` message when the job is finished (succeeded,
cancelled, or failed).

If set to false, only events generated so far will be returned.

### Returns

A list of fine-tune event objects.

Example request

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/fine-tunes/ft-AF1WoRqd3aJAHsqc9NY7iL8F/events \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY"

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    16
    17
    18
    19
    20
    21
    22
    23
    24
    25
    26
    27
    28
    29
    30
    31
    32
    33
    34
    35
    {
      "object": "list",
      "data": [
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807352,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job enqueued. Waiting for jobs ahead to complete. Queue number: 0."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807356,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job started."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807861,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Uploaded snapshot: curie:ft-acmeco-2021-03-03-21-44-20."
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807864,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Uploaded result files: file-abc123"
        },
        {
          "object": "fine-tune-event",
          "created_at": 1614807864,
          "level": "info",
          "message": "Job succeeded."
        }
      ]
    }

## Edits

Deprecated

Given a prompt and an instruction, the model will return an edited version of
the prompt.

## The edit object

Deprecated

choices

array

A list of edit choices. Can be more than one if `n` is greater than 1.

Show properties

object

string

The object type, which is always `edit`.

created

integer

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the edit was created.

usage

object

Usage statistics for the completion request.

Show properties

The edit object

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    {
      "object": "edit",
      "created": 1589478378,
      "choices": [
        {
          "text": "What day of the week is it?",
          "index": 0,
        }
      ],
      "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 25,
        "completion_tokens": 32,
        "total_tokens": 57
      }
    }

## Create edit

Deprecated

post https://api.openai.com/v1/edits

Creates a new edit for the provided input, instruction, and parameters.

### Request body

instruction

string

Required

The instruction that tells the model how to edit the prompt.

model

string

Required

ID of the model to use. You can use the `text-davinci-edit-001` or `code-
davinci-edit-001` model with this endpoint.

input

string or null

Optional

Defaults to ''

The input text to use as a starting point for the edit.

n

integer or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

How many edits to generate for the input and instruction.

temperature

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

What sampling temperature to use, between 0 and 2. Higher values like 0.8 will
make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more
focused and deterministic.

We generally recommend altering this or `top_p` but not both.

top_p

number or null

Optional

Defaults to 1

An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where
the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So
0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are
considered.

We generally recommend altering this or `temperature` but not both.

### Returns

Returns an edit object.

Example request

text-davinci-edit-001

text-davinci-edit-001

curl

Select librarycurlpythonnode.js

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    curl https://api.openai.com/v1/edits \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
      -d '{
        "model": "text-davinci-edit-001",
        "input": "What day of the wek is it?",
        "instruction": "Fix the spelling mistakes"
      }'

Response

Copy‍

    
    
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    11
    12
    13
    14
    15
    {
      "object": "edit",
      "created": 1589478378,
      "choices": [
        {
          "text": "What day of the week is it?",
          "index": 0,
        }
      ],
      "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 25,
        "completion_tokens": 32,
        "total_tokens": 57
      }
    }

